Totally fine. Yes.
Susan, is that okay if we keep it internal? Okay, I'm sure it's very great info.
So I'm sure a lot of people are gonna want to watch it back. Okay, guys. So we have Susan Silver here. I'm so excited.
Susan is one of our top mentors for years. She's always been part of mentor madness.
And last cohort when we came out to the bay. I was realizing that a lot of the founders were having messaging issues with their companies that they could learn a lot.
So I thought of Susan and we reached out and she gave a phenomenal workshop that helped the founder so much.
I, I didn't follow up with you, to let you know, but they really appreciated it.
So when we had you guys this time, we talked to some of you who could benefit from the same message and honestly all of you can because this is some great knowledge.
So she's an expert in marketing and all of this stuff that she's about to talk about.
We're very casual here. Is it okay if they unmute to ask questions, Susan, or how do you want them to do that?
We, it makes me so happy. I can make this expand to fit time. I can shrink it to fit time.
Cool.
You'll all get the share attack. But questions are my most favorite thing and I promise I'll try to make the answers as broadly applicable as I can.
Amazing. Okay, cool. Well, I'll just turn the time over to you so we can maximize it.
But thank you so much for being here. We really appreciate it.
Of course, absolutely. Like so happy to be here and guys just for you like in a nutshell in my background just so you know where I'm coming from.
I got an MBA at Kellogg here in Chicago. I spent 10 years in brand management at Craft Foods.
What that means is that I ran really big businesses. The biggest PNL I was responsible for was about 300 million dollars.
So I think about marketing as a tool to help you drive to your business objectives. I'm not foofy, I'm not fun.
I just, I want to help you guys get your act together and be as efficient and effective as you can to as as you use marketing to kind of help you achieve whatever your current business objectives are.
I found my own company, 18 years ago. I'm June first.st It'll be 18 years, which still blows my mind, but I'm still eating and it's not cat foods.
So things are good. I found it our, I run a marketing strategy consulting firm. I have chosen not to scale.
I can go into that. In detail, but I will not. I'm very happy solo because I love to do the work with my clients and I don't love doing BISD or managing people.
So I, I work with typically grow stage mid market companies from a paying clientele standpoint.
I have been working with entrepreneurs ever since I founded Argentum. 1871 tech stars here in Chicago, University of Chicago, both schools, new venture challenge, global adventure challenge, etc, etc.
So I have judged and help write dozens of pitches if not, I don't know if I'm at 100.
So I'm going to gauge this today to entrepreneurs. You'll notice that I do use a lot of food examples.
It's because everybody eats and I don't have to explain to you what a pizza is.
You know that and we can just talk about the messaging. However, I have worked with hundreds of companies in the last 18 years and about 60% of my clients are B to B.
And only about 25% are food across B to C and B to B. I have worked with a variety of technology startups including Matterport who you may know.
A Bay Area startup they had I think 70 million in series C. They went on public through a SPAC.
So, So if you have questions about specific kinds of examples, please let me know. And without further ado, I'm gonna share my screen.
Okay, so today I'm going to talk with you guys about positioning. Which is really kind of the foundation for all messaging.
It's something I'm super passionate about. I've been helping all kinds of businesses do this for many years.
And I did get the chance to take a look at the air table with the descriptions of your businesses.
And I understand that some of you have pivoted since that information was put up and I know that you've been doing a lot of work if you're if your pitch day is coming up.
But the tools I'm going to talk to you about today. Hopefully we'll help you make whatever you've been saying about your business better because positioning is all about how do you compete in the marketplace, okay?
How do you get people, what can you say to get people to buy you instead of your competitor?
And even if you don't I think you have competitors you do. So. I'm gonna start with kind of your brain.
And, and, human brains because so much of marketing is about kind of human brains. Since positioning is the foundation for all messaging, I want to talk to you about human brains and how they respond to messaging.
And Chloe, if you get any questions in the in the chat, if you'll just let me know.
So why do I have a highsman trophy here? Because this is your brand on messaging.
Your brain. Does not want to hear it. Nobody's brain wants to hear it. We are bombarded with hundreds and hundreds of messages every day and your brains job to anthropomorphize your brain's job is to conserve your energy to conserve its energy so that you'll have brain energy left to make really important decisions like if you're on your bike and a car suddenly like flies in front of you that
you can like have the presence of mind to kind of figure out which way to go, how quickly to stop, whatever it is.
So your brain is constantly trying to conserve energy. The problem is that making any kind of decision uses brain energy.
We all know the story of Steve Jobs wearing the same outfit every day. That was so that he could conserve brain energy.
He didn't want to waste precious brain energy on deciding what to wear. So the people you're trying to reach with your message don't want to hear your message.
Maybe. So what I'm gonna talk to you about today is how to get them to care to hear your message.
All right, so I'm gonna See if I can see the screen bigger or to see all of you.
The best example that I can think of for your brain on messaging is when you're looking at a stack of resumes.
How many of you have ever had to go through a bunch of resumes? You can just raise your hands.
I can see you.
I think art can attest to this.
That's right, yes, yes, that would be, yeah, I was looking at that business.
Yeah, club rec.
Yes. Yes. So you know that 1st hand, but, so a lot of you have looked at the pilot resume.
What is the second best thing? About the task of looking through a pile of resume. If the best thing is finding somebody who's super qualified, who you're excited about.
What's the second best thing?
Okay, that's being done.
Yes, but even better Lisa, making the no pile.
Okay. Yeah.
Right? Making the no pile is awesome. And that's your brain on messaging, okay?
Because what happens when you put something in the no pile?
You don't have to look at it again.
Exactly, exactly. You never have to look at it again. If you put someone in the yes pile, you're signing up for a whole bunch of work.
You've got to get interviews scheduled. You've got to bring them in. You've got to coordinate with the team.
You may have to talk to references. You're gonna have to negotiate and offer all that crap.
Goes away if you put them in the no pile. So that's your brain on messaging.
Okay, your brain, anybody's brain just wants to say no. When we're confronted with a message.
So our job is like how do we make that message like a very yes resume. How do we get your message so that someone goes, oh.
That is for me, okay, if the, if the Heisman dude is going not for me, not for me, not for me.
How do you get some of to stop and say, oh, maybe that is for me. Okay, so the whole thing that I'm going to talk to you about today is how to walk in your potential customer shoes.
So that you can do messaging that makes them stop and say, oh. I think you are talking to me about something that I care to listen to.
Alright, so that's the whole point of today. Chloe, we give 90 min or we have an hour.
90 min.
Okay, cool. Thank you. Then I'll talk more slowly. So When I say value proposition, it is the same thing as positioning.
Alright. I have yet to hear in my 18 actually in my many years of doing marketing anybody kind of be able to give me a definition of value prop that's different than positioning.
So if we're gonna have this super compelling message. That get someone to want to buy your product or service.
What are there there are only 5 things you need to know just 5 small things that are the key components.
Of any compelling marketing message. What are those things?
Could it be like what problem they're facing?
Yes, I, and thank you, Villaria. I will call that unmet need. What's the need they have?
What's need they know they have?
Other things you need to tell them for them to know that you're great, why they should buy you.
Things you always make sure to include in your elevator pitch.
How is this gonna make my life better?
Yes, although Lisa, Sorry.
Oh, what's in it for me, I guess? So what's in it for me question, I guess.
Yes. Definitely. At least I would lump that into on that need as well.
About why us like why would my business be the solution for you
I'm gonna call that point of difference. Yes. You got 2.
How they thoughts? Something that you're always careful to make sure you set in an elevator pitch?
How about what are you? I'm sorry.
The problem. How we are solving a problem?
Yes, I'll call that. Reasons to believe. Okay, I'm gonna stop tormenting you guys right now.
Yeah.
And so.
The specialist and, no, valuable prizes. So 1st of all, who is your target?
Okay, you must know who your target is and we're gonna talk a lot about that. It's really important and a lot of times for young companies it's a hard one.
Because sometimes you want everybody to be your target. Because when you narrow down your target, you're taking money off the table.
And I'm gonna go into all of these in more detail. Okay. Then like we talked about, unmet need.
What is the unmet need? Your target knows they have. Which is different than the I met need you wish they would have because it would make your job much easier.
What are you, which I call competitive set. What's your point of difference and what are the reasons to believe that?
Okay, so with these Core 5 things. You can do very effective compelling messaging. Some of the other things you can do with positioning, if you ever work with a creative agency, a graphic designer, a writer, bringing on even onboarding new employees being able to give them your value proposition being able to show them your positioning statement.
Helps everybody be on the same page really fast. So this is a classic tool. It actually looks like this in my world, which is kind of like a Madlib.
It's to the target with the unmet need. Your company is the competitive set that has a point of difference because 3 reasons to believe.
That's it. Easy peasy. I can tell you that when I do this exercise with my clients, it typically takes about 4 h.
Because the hard part. Is not filling in the blanks. The hard part is that you have lots of choices.
So what I used to work with booth students and do this workshop with both students, When I started, I would hand out this template and have them fill it in.
And then of course they'll be like, oh, I know the answer and they would just fill it in right away, right?
Like you guys are probably already sitting here looking at this thinking, oh, I know the answer. I'm just gonna fill it in.
But what you might not be thinking about is all the different choices you have. For what could go into these into these spaces and I certainly noticed in even reading your very brief business description.
That some of you had a whole lot of and and and even in I think what was supposed to be a 1 lineer.
So when my clients and I do this together. What we do is we talk about all the choices we have.
All the things that this could be and then we decide on the best combination. So I like to use old-fashioned flip charts because I like to see everything around the room while we're going.
Also before I do this work with clients I typically do customer interviews if we have customers. Right. I know that some of you may not be at that stage yet, but.
I like to interview people not for statistical significance. Not so that we can say, oh.
We need to do this because this is what people are telling us. More I do the interviews to bring other voices into the room.
When my client team is doing the positioning with me. Okay, so it's just kind of getting it's really about other ideas, other hypotheses.
Are there any things we're missing that could go into our list? It's not about What are people telling us and therefore we should decide this?
It's much more about we'll take as many ideas as we can. Then we need to choose the best combination.
So I am. Going to sorry I'm like flipping back and forth between making all so I can see all of you and then looking at my slide so I'm gonna give you a bunch of examples along the way.
This one is mighty vine most of you have not heard of Mighty Vine which is fine I'm gonna show you through their positioning why you haven't okay basically they are a tomato growing company, an agriculture company that grows in greenhouses.
And they only ship within a 300 mile radius of Chicago of their greenhouses.
But I think this is a useful example. Because they were. Definitely early stage when I started working with them.
So their target. Was Midwestern women, 30 to 55 who buy fresh tomatoes once a week.
Now. This may seem like a kind of classic consumer products food target. But I can tell you that Mighty Vine didn't have a ton of resources and we had no idea.
Who was buying their tomatoes. But I'll let you in on a secret. What we did know was the only place that Mighty Mine was being sold.
Excuse me, was in Whole Foods in the Midwest? So what I did was I googled.
Who is the Whole Foods Target? Turns out the whole foods target is women 30 to 55.
Okay, so we knew as a Midwestern company that it needed to be Midwestern women, 30 to 55 and also being a tomato company, we knew that the best customers for us were people who bought fresh tomatoes at least once a week.
So that's how we, without knowing much about our real. Consumer base ourselves, that's how we used other kind of data triangulation to figure out who our target should be.
And remember, this is a steak in the ground, right? Especially when you're starting out.
It's a steak in the ground. It's your best gas for who you think is going to be most appropriate for for your product or service.
Leon met need. Why the whole company was founded is because pardon my French tomatoes in the Midwest and wintertime suck.
Okay, and for people who love eating tomatoes, winter is a very sad time if you live in Chicago because winter tomatoes Don't taste good.
So Mighty Vine saw an unmet need. Wouldn't it be great if We could grow a tomato.
That tasted like a summertime tomato in the in the middle of winter. So that's why the company was founded and you'll notice today when we start talking in more detail about the positioning and how it works, I'm gonna start with unmet need because you guys are so close to the idea of why you founded your company.
Okay, so we're going to start there. So Mighty Vine is the local greenhouse tomato grower.
That grows delicious tomatoes year round. And you can see where that might seem like it's complete BS.
Sure, they crow delicious tomatoes year round. Not possible. I don't believe you.
And that's where the reasons to believe come in. And for Mighty Vine, the 3 reasons to believe were that the kinds of tomatoes they grew.
They had selected those. For, flavor. For being as flavorful as possible and not for being shippable, which is why if you live outside of the 300 mile radius of their Chicago greenhouse, you've never tried to mighty vine tomato.
Okay, so they made that decision up front. We're only gonna be, we're gonna be a local product.
That meant that they could have their tomatoes be in stores within 2 days of being fully ripened on the vine.
And then for them, they were lucky enough and good enough that well-known Chicago area chefs like Rick Bayless, who you guys may have heard of with Frontiera Grill.
Rick Bayless, you start tomatoes year round. And then you're kind of like, wow, that must be a pretty good tomato if all those things are true.
Okay, so that's how we looked at all the things that were great about My Divine and this is where we netted out in terms of the best most compelling message that we could.
Use to talk about Mighty by tomatoes and why you should buy them. Questions before I move on?
Good. Any questions yet?
So far so good, looks like.
No. Sorry.
Looks like so far so good.
Okay. Okay. Sure.
Sorry, I just have one quick one. Can I chime in? I'm just curious, this maybe is a bit of an abstract question.
Did Mighty Vine get permission through those business choices to tell this marketing or did the marketing shape?
For example, I'm curious around the local greenhouse story. I think it's really nice, but did they do that and then therefore they have permission to talk about it or should you like talk about and then do it.
I'm just curious, a reason to believe sampling, how that works.
Which I'm sorry, which part are you wondering if they got permission for?
Oh my god.
Okay.
Oh.
I'm specifically thinking about the local greenhouse that business decision and I'm curious if they did that 1st and then they want to talk about it or like I'm just curious on the strategy behind that messaging.
Where they have permission to do that.
So. So from a business model standpoint. They made the decision that they were gonna be a local provider of year round tomatoes to the Chicago area.
What they had hoped to do over time was as they got better at kind of farming under glass. To go to other areas of the country.
And and kind of be able to be the local greenhouse tomato grower. In multiple locations like Minneapolis, I don't know, Idaho, wherever you can't get good tomatoes year round.
It's pretty capital intensive and The Dutch actually do this really, so really successfully and Mighty Vine kind of imported a lot of a lot of the equipment and knowledge from kind of a their Dutch partners.
But it turns out that growing under glass is really hard and tomatoes are really finicky.
And disease wipes out a whole greenhouse and it was much slower growing than the growing going was much slower going than they expected but You know, the on that need that they had seen, they truly developed a product that met that unmet need.
They were able to deliver. In their business model a delicious year-round tomato. So they could own that.
Does that answer your question?
That, that was perfect. That makes sense. So they had some strategic scalability in that messaging and they were trying to see that resonated.
So there was kind of the short term and also a longer term component of that.
Well, well, remember, this is to consumers. Okay, so this is messaging to consumers. It's different than what they're messaging to potential investors would have been and I think for you all especially like given kind of the situation you're in, if I were doing a pitch.
Then I would not only have my kind of customer positioning statement, but I would also do one to investors because investors have very different unmet needs, then tomato eating people.
Okay, or, you know, what have you. So. You guys know based on kind of everything you've learned, you know what investors, what their unmet need is, right?
They want to make up, they want to invest in successful companies so they can make a lot of money fast.
Okay, they want they want that's what they're looking for scalable businesses coachable founders business ideas that are better stronger faster for some reason.
So doing your positioning statement for your kind of customer 1st is gonna help you get a better kind of center of gravity around why you're, why you're telling people you're great.
And then that that impacts. How you talk to investors. The other thing from a positioning statement standpoint is that from an elevator pitch standpoint, to me, if somebody says, you know, Lexi Q.
What are looks like you? What are you? You're gonna say your competitive set, what we are.
And you're gonna say why we're different and special and that's kind of the beginning of your elevator pitch regardless of who you're talking to.
Okay, so this all kind of works together, but kind of so business model is totally irrelevant to consumers.
It is very relevant to investors. So hopefully that extra piece helps even more. I'm gonna give you another example.
That's okay. Sorry.
Real quick, Brian.
Yes!
Just a question, Suzanne, out of curiosity. Do you communicate each of this separately?
Great question, Brian. So there are different ways that you can do this, right? So elevator pitch.
Or collectively.
Competitive SET and then why your difference is special. If you're having a conversation with someone and I'll give you my none example now because it's great to have a none example.
I was once working with an all girls Catholic high school in the suburbs of Chicago helping them to kind of do their positioning.
And we got to a place that they were really excited about during the summer, went during the off season.
Fall rolls around and the teachers in the administration that the administrators were getting ready for for their parents their potential parents open house night.
And their president called me up and she said, you know, everybody loves positioning. But the teachers, many of them were nuns.
The teachers are getting ready to talk to the parents and they don't know how to use the positioning statement when they're talking to the parents.
And I thought that was a great question. And, so let me help you the way I helped and nons.
So what I thought about was, okay, so in this case, The parents have already come to Regina Dominican High School because they know it's in all girls Catholic high school.
So we don't need to tell them what it is. They're in the building. So let's start with why Regina Dominican is great.
Let's start with point of difference. And I'm a big believer in saying it in your own words.
Okay, because to me When you actually are in the position of having a conversation, a real conversation, human to human.
The last thing you want to do is view something that sounds memorized and robotic. The whole point of marketing is it's a proxy for one on one conversation.
So if you get to be having a 1 on one conversation with someone who's interested about your business.
Don't spew memorize stuff at them. Be comfortable with kind of state restating in your in your own words your own language.
So I said okay have have the teachers say what their point of difference is. But then before the parent teacher open house before that night, have them take a look at each of the reasons to believe.
And think about a personal anecdote. That they have from their own experience teaching at Regina Dominican.
And that brings that reason to be believed to life so that when they talk to the parents and say what the point of difference is, then they can say, for example, and tell the anecdote.
That brings the point of difference life of about one reason to believe. So that's that's 1 way to kind of to use the positioning.
To have a conversation with someone where you're not gonna puke at all on them at once.
Okay, you're gonna be conscious of kind of what the situation is. If they if they keep asking you questions and you'll work some of the other things in, you know, if you're doing advertising of any kind, typically you're gonna pick one of the reasons to believe.
And a company, it may just be, you know, if, if you're doing paper click or something like that, it might just be around a reasons to believe.
It's probably gonna include your point of difference and why you're great, but it's not going to be everything at once.
And you're never going to talk about the target or the unmet need. The the target is gonna, the unmet need are gonna help you find your people.
And the target is the one piece of the positioning statement that actually translates to your marketing plan because those the Those are the people you're going to be trying to reach with your marketing plan.
So I realize that's a huge long answer. Did that answer your question?
Yes, yes it did. Thank you.
Probably like 10 times more than you expected or needed, but there you go. Okay, so I'm gonna give you another example and thank you for asking questions.
I appreciate it. Patient. Impact was a.
A very early stage company that I worked on worked with many years ago in the beginning. And They targeted outpatient healthcare organizations.
That wanted to know how they were perceived by their patients in real time. You know, the funny thing is this was probably 1617 years ago.
And what patient impact did was they were the very 1st business. To create electronic patient satisfaction surveys.
Most of you have gotten many of them. You know, it many of them across your life. But know that it didn't used to be a thing.
The only way that. That health care organizations and physicians got any kind of consumer feedback? Was there was this one company that would send out paper surveys once a year and then aggregate the results?
And the founders of Patient Impact said. There's gotta be a better way. Why can't we do electronic surveying of the patients?
And the funny thing is most people didn't think it would work because most patients are old. And back then people said old people don't use computers.
Okay, and they're so wrong, right? They're so wrong, but that was what patient impact was up against when they were founded, but their founder said, I think this is a real thing.
She worked for a consulting firm in the in kind of health care space. So. They were an electronic patient satisfaction survey.
That helped your businesses be more profitable every day because you think about it. The old way of doing things, if somebody told you that your toilet had been dirty.
It could have been 10 months ago, but if somebody told you that your bathroom was dirty yesterday, there's something that you as a business can do to kind of improve things rapidly.
Okay, so that was kind of what was going to help the businesses to improve like on the spot like right away real time information.
So how did they help these healthcare organizations become more profitable. One, because they generated actionable information daily.
2, it quickly paid back and 3, they provided expert customer support to help people kind of learn how to use the results so that they could have a more profitable business.
So it's not perfect, you know, whenever I look at these, I did this a long time ago, but still.
It's got it got them going in the right direction kind of focusing on a profitability message.
Cause there were so many different choices. Obviously they were starting a completely new and different way of doing things in the health care space, but this is kind of where they focused on in the beginning.
So this is actually not a linear process. I'm gonna take you through it and it's gonna seem like it's linear, but it's not.
Okay, as you change one thing, other things change and the whole positioning statement impacts other pieces. But, you know, it's funny, this was an early tech stars company.
Power to switch back in the O's, I think the odds. And they didn't have.
Lip chart paper. So we did it on a whiteboard, which meant we had to keep crossing things off and erasing and taking pictures.
But you can see even just this one whiteboard. We were crossing things off. Moving things around, thinking through.
So what I'm gonna take you through today can be deceptively Okay, Okay, and I want you to kind of think about it.
It can be simple, but it's also keeping a lot of things in your head. But.
Work with me and I'll help you I'll help you do a decent one. So like I mentioned before, we're gonna start with unmet need because hopefully the reasons that you founded the company that you're currently working on is because Okay.
You saw a real on that need and figured out a way to solve it better, stronger, faster. So we're gonna start with unmet need because you're really close to it.
Okay, when I work with clients that have been around for many years, Baby, Bob and morphed and pivoted and Lord only knows, right?
They're much sometimes I'm that need is much harder because they are doing so many different things.
But you guys, I love working with entrepreneurs in early stage because you're really close to this and this is so important.
This is the driver of the whole positioning statement. Okay, what is the real unmet need you saw?
And how are you solving it better, faster, stronger? So what I think about on that need is really what is this customer problem you're solving.
And the way I think about it is Somebody woke up in the morning and said, wow, if only there were a way to or wouldn't it be great if or I wish we could.
Okay, and that's what you guys are answering. Theoretically with your product service. Is somebody says, wow, wouldn't it be great if there was a way to and you are like, ta, now there is a way to.
Okay, so unmet need, I'm gonna give you an, so one thing I didn't tell you is that.
You know, I mentioned that you have all these choices to fill in the positioning statement. What that means is it's very unusual to kind of have an aha moment when you're doing positioning.
It's not like, wow, I never thought of that before. I can't believe we never thought of that before.
It's more a process of kind of winnowing and deciding strategically which direction you're going to go in.
I did once have a client where we did kinda have a big aha. And it was around unmet needs.
I'm gonna show that to you now. This is the sprawling. Okay, you've probably never seen a, which is too bad.
The sprawling was invented by the former CEO of Bally's Total Fitness.
Who loves to run but has bad knees. And the only place he can run is on sand. So he decided to invent a treadmill that replicates running on sand.
And this actually works. Okay, this really does replicate running on sand. I know it looks crazy.
But it does. All right, so. You know they didn't do any kind of consumer research because the former CEO of Valleys he was the consumer target.
They wanted to make it purple but they couldn't get it machined all in purple they named it the sprawling because they thought that the wilder and wackier it was the more likely people were to get it attention.
None of those things are correct, but But the interesting thing is, is that The CEO and his team.
They were industry veterans, okay? They knew everybody in the industry and they thought for sure that they'd be selling into their friends at Equinox and Bally's and LA fitness and they'd be selling thousands of these things.
And. They were having a problem because they weren't making the sales at those big companies. They would walk in and say hi and there'd be lots of hugs kisses catching up.
But the places they were selling were kind of smaller. Health club chains. Where, you know, there may be selling one or 2 at a time instead of a hundred at a time.
So the target. That, that's Spring had was purchasing people at these large health club chains.
And during the positioning session. We all sat around a big table and I asked the team. What they knew about these purchasing people.
And you know they had worked with these people. For most of their careers. And I asked them, you know, what do their bosses rate them on?
You know, what are their KPIs? How does their boss know if they're doing a good job?
Why do they get promoted? Okay. What are what are kind of the unmet needs that these purchasing people are working on every day at work?
And they were like, that's easy. They're really 3 things. First.st It's replacing old equipment.
Second, it's keeping costs low. And 3, rd it's bringing in the hot new trend.
And they made this list. And they all looked at the list. And they kind of went. Oh, because the sprawling was not old equipment.
It was an incremental cost and it wasn't the hot new trend yet. And they said, no wonder people aren't buying at large health club chains because what they realized was in the purchasing function.
These people were not responsible for or rated on customer acquisition or customer retention. And something new and cool at a gym.
Helps with customer retention and customer acquisition. But at large health club change, the purchasing people don't aren't rated on that.
The reason that Spring was having success at smaller health club chains is because the owner operators were still doing the purchasing and they cared about customer retention and acquisition.
So what this exercise helps for and realize is that they were selling in the wrong place or they were focusing on selling in the wrong place.
And what they needed to think about was how do they become the hot new trend. Because until they became the hot new trend.
The purchasing people at large health club chains were not going to be bringing them in. So that kind of was very a very helpful exercise for them to kind of think about.
Their whole approach to sales and marketing and change it based on kind of what What value they were bringing to the marketplace and to whom.
All right, so that's the sprawling. The other thing is is he is. Throughout the whole positioning statement, you'll notice that it's not fancy advertising words.
Okay, what we're using is very, very basic. This is not creative writing. This is the step before that, which is kind of just the facts, ma'am.
A lot of times people are guilty of trying to make it too complicated. Remember I said, what did they wish for?
What, you know, only there were a way to. I actually had a potential client suggest to me that their companies on that need were their companies customers on that need was that they wish they had efficient and effective packaging systems that align with main principles.
Which nobody ever said to another person with a straight face. Okay, that's completely wishful thinking.
And it's not what I'll call kind of human words. It sounds like a robot. Okay, it sounds AI generated.
I also have seen somebody say that. They thought that their potential customers wanted to optimize for the delivery of real time communication, of communication across their enterprise.
No, no people don't talk like that. And this or I want my, more cost efficient print if like printing flexibility.
This isn't how people talk, okay? The one in the middle, wanna optimize to deliver real time communications across my enterprise was actually one of my clients on their website.
I put this in when I was doing the workshop with them and they were like, is that us?
It's like, yeah. So you don't wanna sound like this. You wanna, when I do a workshop around this, I call the exercise beers with peers.
And you want a picture, what would you legitimately say with a straight face to a friend or a colleague if you were having a beer with them?
So things like, I want a deeper understanding of my customers or I want to build community on my campus.
Or I like being buzzed but hate being hung over or I want my golf swing to be more consistent or I want to live the way I want in retirement.
Or one of you seems like one of your, I'm at knees is their, your target is frustrated by AMC and fraud issues.
So These are on that knees and kind of it's said in real words that anyone can understand.
Sometimes I get pushback because someone says, oh, we're a very technical industry. But remember what I said about the Heisman.
Nobody wants to spend the time. So it's so much better to say anything that you're talking about in.
In especially when you're starting out. What would a real person say, versus a technical expert that communicates the same thing?
Because the more you can kind of just make it easier to digest the better off you're gonna be.
You will prove your technical expertise in other places, but this is not the place to do it.
So I'm going to use a running example of Alan Brothers steaks because again everybody eats.
Alan Brothers, very high end steak company. They started out supplying restaurants, really upscale restaurants like Mortons.
With USDA graded prime stakes people love their steak so much that they created an e-commerce side of their business.
This is for the e-commerce side of their business. So the unmet need for Allan Brothers was their customer wanted to eat the very best day possible at home.
It doesn't have to be hard. Okay. They wanted to the very best dicks possible at home.
That's the unmet need that Alan Brothers was meeting with their e-commerce business.
Before I go into target, does anyone have any questions about on that need? It's a hard one.
Because they're, you know, you wanna sound real. You don't want to put words into their mouth.
You want to make sure that you're looking at it from their perspective, not yours. This is not wishful thinking.
This is what you, you know, this is what you really know about your potential customers. And it's really about what's the unmet need you saw that made you found this business?
Okay. Questions? You're gonna take a drink, let you think?
Okay, we'll go on to target. Yes, yay! Thank you, Snow. Yes, please.
Let's meet.
I have one quick question. Okay. Thank you. Thank for your patience.
Yeah, I mean, if we want to make it, and, If I want to make it really simple and easy to understand.
It often it becomes too general for me. So, yeah, how can I make it more specific?
Actually, that's a great question, Snow. Thank you for asking. So what I have in mentioned yet.
Is that the place where you differentiate yourself? Is in the point of difference. Okay, the unmet need is kind of basic human condition stuff.
It's not where you differentiate. In fact, BAYNE, the consulting firm.
Has done a ton of really interesting research around unmet needs on the B to B side and the B to seaside.
If you want to dig into this more, it's called the elements of value. And there's a Harvard Business Review.
There are 2 Harvard Business Review articles about it. One for me to be one to be to see.
And then BAYNE also has a bunch of stuff published on their website. But what happens is Well, it or not, when you think about it, there are only so many unmet needs.
On the on the human on the like the consumer side or on the business side. I was working with a fintech company here in Chicago.
I was on their advisory board and they were a combine that helped train people to be day traders and when they qualified the company would give them funding to trade for them.
Okay, and the unmet need was super clear, but they got to a point in kind of the lifecycle of the industry and they said, Other competitors are using the same admin.
Me unmet need should we pick a different one? I was like, no, that's the biggest unmet need.
That's like saying that you're not gonna Pay attention to that we want to get our clothes clean and the laundry detergent space, but you're going to talk about something else.
You know, the basic thing with laughter, is everyone wants to get their clothes clean. So you want to address that.
So don't contort yourself to try to be different any place, but in the point of difference.
Okay, otherwise it's basic human condition. I want to be healthy. I want to thrive.
I don't want to go to jail. You know, stuff like that, depending on the category, which I have had clients where the unmet need was we don't want to go to jail, which makes life interesting.
Calvin, Dan Antonio.
Yeah, thank you very much, Susan, for this insightful session. And my question, I think maybe you will get to it later, but just, when we are asked to construct the one-liners, okay?
I know you're mentioning this 5 key elements of value prop. Sometimes it's just one line as we don't have time to fit in a lot.
So I think it will be we'll find it helpful for you to tell us some of the critical things that should make it in a 1 line now.
And you know of this value prop which ones will be very very poignant to feature in the online.
Yeah.
For sure. And that's what I'm talking about when I talk about elevator pitch. It's what the heck are you?
So competitive set and why are you different and special? Okay, like that's that's the core of it.
And then the conversation flows from there, but that's where I absolutely would start.
Antonio.
Hi, Susan. Thank you. So we are aware it's a order ring for mental well being.
It's a wearable. And so to identify you might need so we have we have been conducting a lot of interviews to consumers for wearables and what we hear from them is that they don't have a way for monitoring the stress which results in your brain fog, tireness, and eventually affects the relationship with their family.
And ordering a book purple wash don't do that really well so that's kind of a met need that we believe we're covering would that be a good place to start to define is a met needs and you know use their pain, they're emotional, they mode their emotions and their in their pain.
To define our menu.
I, I think it's a very good place to start for you. Let me put in a pitch that not everything is due to pain.
Okay, so I think that sometimes Sometimes that gets overused and makes it sound almost like a bigger deal than it is with Mighty Mine Tomatoes.
You know, the fact that you have nothing to eat, but crappy tomatoes in the winter time is not a pain.
You know, it's an annoyance, but it's not it's not causing anybody.
Deep physical discomfort. So, you know, Antonia for you, I think there are different ways to think about it and you're going to want to parse those out just to kind of like look at your list.
So, you know. I don't wanna get Alzheimer's. It's probably a big one or I don't want dementia or I want to do everything I can't but you know that's probably where like they wanna do everything they can to avoid getting but it's probably because they don't want to.
Get dementia is probably a huge one. But you know, it could be, you know, I want to be, you know, able to be a contributing member of society until I die.
You know, it could be, I want to be able to play with my great-grandchildren.
So they're different kind of nuances around that, but I'm gonna suspect in this case it's actually not a pain, it's a fear.
You know, it's the fear of getting dementia and being impaired in that way. So I think starting there, knowing what I know about the topic, my dad died at early on said Alzheimer's.
I'd say, I think you're dead on. So yeah, and you know the interviews that you're conducting obviously you don't want you're not gonna say you know 90% of the people we talk but it's really about the qualitative.
What are you hearing when people are talking about this this you know and kind of listing out the things you're hearing.
So great question. Thank you.
Thank you.
So target. Target for you guys. Is who is the group. That has this unmet need.
Knowing that you are all about Tam all the time probably at this point. But who is the customer that has the unmet need?
I was judging an entrepreneurial contest for a school here in Chicago a few years ago and one of the companies, one of the startups, said that their target was females 5 to 50.
Marcel, you look perplexed. Why are you perplexed by that target?
Too broad. Absolutely. Way too broad. Basically, everybody who has 2 X chromosomes plus.
Right? Like it's just like, that's basically saying like all women, which is 2 broad.
The reason there are a lot of reasons why it's too broad, but we're Remember I said the target.
Is who your marketing plan is directed towards. Saying you guys just There's no way you have enough money or resources or time to kind of like go after all.
But the other thing is, is that they're gonna have different unmet needs. Okay, that's the key thing like that's how you know if you need more than one positioning statement and I hope you don't we'll get to that but what you're looking for is kind of a cohort where you can find them where they kind of are in the same space, you know, so basically, you know, the
f year old doesn't even have a budget, right? She's an influencer. But you gotta pick!
Your bull's eye. It doesn't mean that you're gonna say bad things about the people who aren't near bullseye, but you have got to focus someplace so that you can have a specific message so you don't get the heistman.
Okay, because if you do a broadly generic message, no one is gonna pay attention to it. No one wants to listen to your message.
Okay, so you need to have a message that's oh it's for me. Okay, so you need to pick your bullseye and I'm going to define it this way for you.
This is who you are going to chase. Not who you accept. Okay, years ago when I had just I was about 2 years into founding.
I remember I work with mid market and grow stage companies. And I got a phone call, true story.
I got a voicemail message on my answering machine because this was way back in like 2,007 and it was somebody I knew at Procter and Gamble.
And he said, hey, Susan, this is Steve Knox. We have a problem here at PNG that we think you can help us solve.
Give me a call.
Do you think I called Steve Notch back and said you're a multi 1 billion dollar company or not in my target?
I'm not gonna talk to you.
Like, no way! I said to Steve, what are you? And looking for me to do. And it was something that I was interested in.
I was gonna be able to learn stuff which was gonna help my clients and they were willing to pay me for the work that I did.
So all good, right? I could write case studies about it. I was gonna kind of be able to get new knowledge to help my existing clients.
All that was awesome. So the key is though. I would never do a minute of business development. Towards companies like Procter and Gamble or Kraft or Morningstar, okay?
Because they have lots of people like me and I have very limited time. Okay, and we all have really limited time, money, resources to do our business development.
So it's not about like who randomly comes to you. It's about who you are gonna take.
Case.
And you might wanna think about it like, okay, if. Where they were going to be most likely to be successful given what we offer. Okay.
And that's how it's really scary.
But you guys have been I know been very, you're being forced to be disciplined about your TAM as you do your pitch.
Okay. And you know that that means leaving money on the table. But remember that it's money that's like It's not.
It's a much riskier b for the money you're leaving on the table than that for the people that you're actually chasing.
Okay, and one of my favorite examples is Gibson's steakhouse. I realize this is a very steak heavy presentation, but, Gibson's restaurant group is actually the largest restaurant chain in the United States.
And I was having a really interesting conversation with their CEO. About his dad, who was the founder of Gibson, Steve Senior.
And the Steve Jr. Was telling me that they had had a really hard time getting Steve senior to agree to a specific target.
Because Steve Senior was the Isn't that a hospitality guy? Do you senior said, we welcome everybody.
Right? We welcome everybody. Why would we pick a target? We welcome everybody.
And I said, of course you do. But who are you chasing, right? If a vegetarian goes to Gibson's.
They're gonna have a lovely time despite the wrong meat parading by, right? But they're gonna have a lovely time.
They're gonna be things on the menu they can eat. People will be nice to them. It will be a pleasant convivial evening.
But Gibson isn't gonna spend a dime trying to convince vegetarians to come to Gibson's.
Right, and that's the difference, okay? It's who are you gonna chase, not who do you welcome?
I welcomed PNG. Hell yeah. Hell yeah. I welcome PNG.
But I'm not chasing PNG, not one. Okay, and that's the difference because you don't have enough resources to chase everybody.
So in order to be more efficient with your marketing, you got to figure out who do you want to actually chase and who do you want your team to chase?
Some of you I know have several targets. Go house, I know you have 2 targets because you've got a platform, you know, you're 2.
Hi, a business model, then you've got kind of 2 targets and you've signed up for this, all right?
But let me show you guys why I don't recommend having multiple targets, particularly at your stage. Okay, in my world, my little marketing world.
When I think about one target, I think of one budget. And I think a 1 stack of work.
When you have 2 targets, you have half the money for each and you have a twice the amount of work because there are no economies of scale.
That's what you're signing up for. So my wish for you is that you not do that to yourselves.
Hi, I guarantee you your teams aren't big enough and you don't have enough funding to do this well.
So where are you going to place your bat? For those of you who have a 2 sided marketplace, you've already chosen this path.
And that's fine. That's your business model, but no, that's what you've signed up for.
But for those of you who don't have a 2 side of business model, I would really encourage you.
To think deeply about kind of who is your core target. And where are you making your bed? Okay, where are you making the bet where you're gonna put money and time and resources against this?
Questions?
No questions. This is a tricky one. It's a scary one. It's a really scary one.
Yes.
Okay, I have a question. Given that sorry on camera office I have COVID right now, but Good.
It's okay, I'm sorry.
Given that, we also are 2 sighted marketplace. We have our supply inventory. Of like travel operators and then we're also targeting travelers, consumers.
So I love this like this visual of breaking down the like the money the time the resources and also the work just curious like how do you decide on like which one to prioritize?
It seems like. Yeah, like a chicken in the egg issue.
You know what? I think, I mean, really in order for your business model to succeed, you have to have both.
Right. So then.
So you
Hmm, okay. I'll keep listening. Thank you.
And also we can also talk offline, but kind of like, cause you need, you know. You need to have both in order for it to work.
So like there's this piece of care and feeding of. You know, you, you need to make sure that your travel companies are happy so they stay and then you need to bring them you need to feed them with consumers.
Right. For us, it seems like getting the supply side is actually easier and fighting the consumers is harder.
So like marketing. Marketing B to C is like more difficult because we're not spending any dollars marketing dollars we're doing everything organic and also just like trying to do some organic watering whole customer recruiting.
So, great point. Let me let me ride with that. So you've got, so you kind of have your answer already, right?
Like you're having a really easy time. Getting the supply side. So focusing on consumers, you know, the hard thing with B to C.
Is that it's easy to spend a lot of money badly fast. And that's the sad truth.
You know, b 2 b, you can be more deliberate, you get to have one on one selling often.
But B to C. Is trickier because it can be so expensive and and frankly the the more well-defined your target.
The more efficient your marketing spend will be.
Because you're gonna be kind of fishing in the right pond.
Sometimes.
Right. Hmm. I'll have to think about that. We have a call with our marketing person later.
So yeah.
Sound up? Yes, Alejandra.
Thank you. Suzanne, I'm, I'm working with Antonio, you know, where the, for mental wellness and I think that our, target, we've been focusing a lot in high performers who are suffering from stress.
A lot of entrepreneurs a people who are starting their own business or who run let's say in very high level positions and so there's a lot of stake with stress.
Now we've also heard that you know there's other pockets that are very interesting like women who are you know are becoming moms in their forties who also have a lot to protect in terms of their their mental wellness and their health.
We haven't explored so much that avenue or actually others so you know we picked our target but what would you recommend when it comes to understanding how many other potential targets they may be and how to make that decision.
Great question, Alejandra. You know, it's funny, I'm smiling because.
Yeah, as I mentioned in kind of my background, I've seen a lot of startup pitches.
And invariably. You know. Kind of it seems like a lot of times people start companies start by selling to people who are like them.
So how performers under a lot of stress like Bingo. But the thing is, is that if you open your aperture, And if you think about the world more broadly, which it sounds like advisors are encouraging you to do, you're gonna, you're gonna rapidly see that.
There are other, there's a bigger TAM out there. Okay, that's still share the same on that need, but the thing that I think a lot about.
Is Who are the people? Who are willing to pay to solve this problem. And that's the most important thing because you guys, for the most part, I believe are in this to actually make money for your business to drive revenue.
So you need to think about what's a large enough group of people. With the same on that need.
Where they're willing to pay. For what you're offering to make what they're unmet need is go away.
You know, so I think when you think about kind of. New mothers. There probably a hell of a lot more of them.
Then there are you know high performing entrepreneurs.
Probably. And it's, It's certainly easier to target.
Certainly easier to find. So I think as you think about kind of like not only are they going to pay for it, is there a big enough group?
But how hard or easy are they to find? And message too. You know, cause I think about like.
Everybody's got stress, right? Everybody has stress these days. Everybody. You know, it's a pervasive societal problem.
So for you, it potentially is looking at. All the different kind of segments or buckets. I mean, shoot, you think about like children in anxiety and it's just horrifying. Right?
So if you think about kind of all the buckets, even that are in the news, like all the different buckets, and then think about the one that's maybe going to be easiest for you.
That's got enough heft. It's going to be reasonably easy to reach. And and they're willing to pay for what you're offering.
Meaversals potentially, you know, I know that there's certainly been more, more talk in the entrepreneurial community that really kind of talks about mental health.
It didn't used to be that way, right? That's certainly more out in the open.
But is it still kind of a, you know, that's kind of the cost of being an entrepreneur and you're gonna tough it out and our people really gonna pay for it.
You know, especially if entrepreneurs are still kind of like the really early stage. They might be too busy to pay attention to it.
Or they might be to stretch them financially to be able to pay for it. Where as if you think about like.
New moms theoretically they're, you know, you know, so I'm not advocating for new moms, but I'm saying there may be some places that are easier.
To start to kind of, to kind of get your bearings. Get your credibility before you move.
If you think about it like a bull's eye before you move out.
No, I love it. Thank you so much, Okay, to understand who is willing to pay, we've been interviewing people who have already invested in some wearables.
I don't know if you have a quick advice as to how do you figure out who's willing to pay for what you're offering.
This may be a little bit out of the scope.
Much more detailed answer that's going to involve kind of more detailed research. But, I'd be happy to talk with you about it offline.
Okay, thank you. Thank you so much.
So, just a question because we had a workshop on this like a couple of weeks ago last week about sales.
Would it be just an option to just go and sell and sell it? Go on Facebook, book groups, go on Instagram and sell our product, sell our product to to Facebook groups and see who buys it.
Would that be a good approach? And, and then we'll, those ones who are willing to give our credit card.
I think it. I think you need to be careful because most many folks, many Facebook groups say that 10 times fast many Facebook groups say that 10 times fast many Facebook groups are closed and you are not welcome to do that.
Okay, like they don't want you there selling shit. So you need to be very careful and be respectful.
About kind of like how you're approaching it. Cause you'll get kicked out.
And the community won't like you, you know, and that's not where you want to be.
You don't want to be a jerk.
Thank you.
So. Sometimes. The important thing if you're if you've got you know sometimes in a b 2 b sale you have lots of influencers and lots of people involved in the purchase.
So I like to think about who signs the check. Okay, and even even it's not really JLo, is it?
I mean, it might be and that's very funny and that's awesome, but Jalo, I think for the travel company you were mentioning the 2 side of business model.
N.
Right.
Who signs the check right and in your case it's the consumers they're gonna drive revenue for you or it might not it might be the travel company but but kind of if you think about who signs the check that can be an indicator.
I think you are farther along than that because you've already had an easy time kind of getting the providers.
But for those of you who are involved in more complicated sales at a, organization kind of thinking about who actually signs the check and when I say sign the check what I mean is who has to say yes.
For the check to get cut. Okay, and start there. Start there with your positioning. Some examples of target.
Whoever has employees with invested RSUs, yes, that would be a target. Man with health insurance, who have a concerning medical skin issue.
Laura is your draft and analyze contracts. I'm looking at you, Lexi, owners of businesses with under a thousand employees, physical therapy companies with at least 25 locations or direct to consumer companies that require cold distribution channel.
Okay, so these are all just random examples of target. You can use basic research to gather some facts about your target.
Some of these you may be able to tap into now, some it might be as your company grows. You know, using customer interviews, which many of you are doing, which I think is awesome.
If you're shipping anything looking at zip codes to get a handle on geography, call reports from salespeople if you have them.
Social media, you know, what are people saying? Who's following you? Going on sales calls yourself.
I'm guessing that a lot of you are already doing this, but you know, even writing the information down is really important.
Especially if you're doing b 2 b and you're getting sales, the 1st thing I would do in the kickoff meter, one of the things I would be sure to do in the kickoff meeting is ask the company or the business why they decided to work with you.
And write it down. Cause that's a great way to get information about why people are deciding to buy you.
Survey data. T show observations if you go. So those are some different ways that you can go about approaching those.
Okay, some of them kind of more down and dirty than others.
The Allen Brothers target. Has. He's 55 plus male and an income over 200,000.
The way we knew this was because we actually were able to do quantitative research. Allen Brothers had about 12,000 names in their database.
We really weren't sure if it was kind of the Man buying the stakes or if he was kind of leaning back in his barker and saying, honey, go, we're gonna be some steaks.
Or if something completely different. So we were able to do quantitative research to answer the question once and for all that attended to be men.
Who are buying the stakes themselves and they were older and well off.
But you don't have to do quantitative research and for most of you. You can't yet because you don't have enough customers in order to do statistically significant research if you assume a response rate of about 2 or 3% you're looking at needing a thousand people to send the survey to.
Okay, so I can pretty confidently say that none of you have that yet. If you do, I'm stunned and odd.
But there, there's an exercise that you can do. That I call who are your people.
And who are not your people? Okay. And there are some fundamental things as you think about your product as you think about your service, your business.
You already know. Some things that your potential customers have to know or believe. In order to be ripe to buy you.
Okay, with Alan Brothers, there were 2 things. One, the people needed to already believe that great steak is worth paying more for.
Okay, Allen brothers did not have enough money. To change people's minds. It's 1 of one of the hardest things there is.
There's nothing more expensive in marketing. Then getting people to decide to buy something they don't think they want or do something they don't think they want to do.
Okay, I'm good. I would be very happy to place a nice fat bet. That not one of you woke up this morning and said, gee, I hope someone tries to sell me something today that I don't think I want to buy.
That's a really tough road.
So for Alan Brothers. They're target was people who already loved great steak and were comfortable with paying more for it.
They also needed to believe that it was possible to purchase great food online. Okay, and if they didn't believe both of these things They were not Alan Brothers target.
Okay, because Alan Brothers didn't wanna sell them on these things. Alan brought Alan Brothers wanted to sell them on Allen Brothers.
So they don't want to waste time convincing them of these things. They wanted to convince them that Allen Brothers was great.
Great steak that you could buy online. Okay. Let me do the research, we also learn some other things which are useful for later.
They ate out a lot, they shopped in gourmet stores and they gave Allen brothers as gifts.
You will be getting a packet. Of, of tools. You'll get the format, you'll get the template.
Okay, for positioning you'll actually get a more detailed worksheet. And you'll get some target.
Some target worksheets. The ones that you get will be divided. One will be for b 2 b, one will be for B to C.
I've kind of. Blended them here just so you can see. You don't need to answer all of these.
And, you know, target is kind of roughly like persona, but I like to think of. To me, Persona is always kind of a creative writing exercise and I'm way too like a matter of fact for that.
This is about building a skeleton. You can hang whatever clothes you want on the skeleton, but 1st you got to get a sense for kind of like Who is this person?
How do you find them or who is this company? How do you find them? You know, is it the revenue that they're generating?
Is it the behaviors they're doing? Is it the geography that they're in? Things like that that will help you kind of narrow down your target.
So the positioning statement, we just say that Alan Brothers target is affluent and 55 plus.
I do a whole second page on target detail. Okay, that comes out of kind of answering that worksheet.
Do you guys have any more questions about Target? Before we move on. I will tell you that when I'm doing the When I'm doing the 4 h workshop with my clients.
We spend the most time on target. Okay, target is really important. It's in the background, but like I said, all of your marketing is going to be directed at chasing this target.
So kind of getting very granular and clear and in agreement on who your target is is really critical to successfully be able to market your product and use the messaging that comes out of positioning.
Competitive set? You know, we've talked about where does that fit with the.
With the elevator pitch, it's what are you? Sometimes it's easy. I am a marketing strategy consultant.
My ex-husband was a lawyer. Mac and cheese seems like it could be really my current husband is complicated because he's a scientist.
So I can't say that because there's like if you say someone's a scientist or all kinds of other questions you ask.
Mac and cheese seems like it would be really easy, but it's not. It can be an all family value dinner.
It can be a kid's meal. It could be a teen snack or a start side dish.
Or it can be College Gutville. Whoa, where'd it go? There it is.
It can be college. So you can see that depending on what Mac and cheese says it is. It has different competitors.
And different reasons why it's great.
Okay, so sometimes it's really easy. But other times it's way more complicated. And I think of the kind of with competitive set, I think of the human brain like an old fashioned filing cabinet.
I wanna be able to tell someone quickly what draw to open and what folder to pull out. Okay, that's what you want.
You don't wanna be mysterious. You don't want them to guess. This is not about being clever.
Okay, what you wanna do, someone's just ask you, tell me what about your company? Do you really want to be coy and have them try to guess what you really do?
Or you want to tell them what you do? And then tell them why you're great and start a conversation.
I vote for the latter.
Allen Brothers, the online prime me company. Back when we did this positioning there were only one maybe 2 competitors.
But this is very clear anybody can understand what they did. Okay, and that's the most important thing.
Questions about competitive SET.
Thank you. Point of difference. It's why it's different and special. Okay, this is the big Kahuna.
This is your differentiator. You know, and Antonio, I think you asked me earlier, or actually not wasn't, somebody else.
Like, about differentiating this is where you differentiate. This is where you lay it on the line.
Why are you different and special? You know, how are you solving that unmet need? Better, stronger, faster.
If you want to be compelling about your point of difference, you're not going to be ambiguous. You're not going to talk about value or quality or service.
People have no idea what these words mean to you. Okay. And it's really important to be clear about what they mean to you when I have clients, we use these words.
I think if it is kind of like an internal team shorthand. And what we need to do is dig into it.
So I know when my clients say, oh, we're a high quality company. I wanna know what does that mean and what are examples of what my client does.
That support that idea of quality. So we want to get beyond the generic. It's funny, I had a client use AI and they loaded all of the interview transcripts I did into AI and they asked it to generate a positioning statement.
And the thing that was so interesting to me was that it was completely generic. It used words like this.
Okay, it was. Which is not a surprise, but it was super cliched. And what you're really trying to be, if you don't want to get the highsman, you don't want to be cliched.
Okay, you want to be compelling. And you want to be clear that you're for them and you want to be clear about why you're great.
You don't want people to guess. Okay, if I see, you know. We offer value.
I really don't know like why that means I should buy them.
The best points of difference clearly meet the unmet need. Remember I said the unmet need is kind of the fullc of all of those.
So if You have kids and you want the time they spend away from you to be enriching. Then someone like Kids Science Lab that provided science classes to little kids and helped kids become better thinkers, that's really compelling to parents.
We help your kids become better thinkers. We know the unmet need is that they want the time their kids spend without them be enriching.
But what we talk about is that Kids Science Lab helps kids become better thinkers. Or if a company is spending too much time recruiting and hiring, then you know, as, the company in your cohort whose name I'm forgetting.
Never read it on qualified resume again is really compelling. Okay, cause we know nobody likes to read apart.
Nobody likes to go through Apollo resume. So you need to be clear. To yourself about how your point of difference meets the unmet need that you've identified as being kind of the biggest, most important one.
Luckily for you guys, and I really do mean this because you're really close to kind of still your, your kind of generative moment as a company.
You have a much clearer idea still, even even if you've pivoted, of like what's the unmet need you're trying to meet and why are you better stronger, faster?
And that's what this is all about. Some examples of point of difference. Somebody could say we have the fastest, most accurate consumer insights.
Work with the best broker in your marketplace. And by the way, all the examples I use are from clients I've worked with.
We ensure that the money you sent home is used the way it was intended. This is a company from the last cohort.
Successfully navigate through turbulent market cycles. Everything you love about hard sells or without the without the alcohol.
Experts in off the shelf control area networks. So these are some points of difference that I have either seen used and I'm in tech stars cohorts or my clients have used themselves.
So tools to help you identify your new point of difference because it can be hard. Interview your customers.
Now you're interviewing potential customers. But when you have customers and some of you may have paying customers.
Find out what they love you. Find out why they repurchase from you or why they chose you in the 1st place.
Okay, learning those things can give you a lot of insight into why they love you. Because I'm all about with positioning.
Really? What it boils down to is understanding why. You know, when you get a little farther down the line, why your customers love you.
So you can talk to other people like that about why they would love you too. Right now you're kind of more hypothetical why you think they're gonna love you.
So for example, Allen Brother Steaks on the restaurant side, they do way more when it comes to food safety.
Then they're required to by law. And so when we did the positioning for the restaurant side of the business, that's something that we talked about in their positioning statement.
Ironically, as consumers when you go purchase food someplace, you just assume it's safe.
But for a restaurant tour. They must make sure that the food that they're serving to their customers is safe.
So we don't talk about it to consumers, but we do talk about it to people who are on the BBC side.
Or think backwards. What can go horribly wrong if someone makes a bad category purchase decision, which can be lots of fun?
Like what can go horribly wrong? And that can be assigned to you. What are you doing with your business to make sure that doesn't happen?
For Alan Brothers, it's that they deliver to your home the very best stakes you can get anywhere.
Which seems like it could be. Yes, right? Kind of like Mighty Mind. They deliver to your home the very best stakes you can get anywhere.
Reasons to believe are the proof. Okay, there what evidence do you have that your point of difference is true?
It can be quantifiable. It can be proprietary process. It can be awards or credentials.
Some of these things that you wish you could say you might not be able to say yet. But it could be that you realize there's something you wish you could say about why you're great and you guys can start building and working towards that now.
So that maybe in a few months or in a year, you can say that about your company and you're, you're proud of your service.
Some examples of reasons to believe that my clients have used. One of them was able to say that they certified over 6,000 correctional healthcare professionals, including a former surgeon general.
Remember I said I had a client where the unmet need was they don't want to go to jail.
This was part of that. Somebody else had said they impact over 1,000,000,002 D and 3D items.
I know none of you are close to that yet. But, you know, just as kind of like, helping you see what some of my clients have been able to ultimately say at a different point in their life cycle.
You know, nobody gets to a billion anything. Without being good at something. Yeah, my cannabis sells or my TFC seller client every can contains 2 and a half Migs of THC microdose.
So your buzz stays in your control. Provides instant feedback on any mobile device. Easy to use software, proprietary process.
4.9 star rating on Amazon. Only one in 40 teachers is qualified. These are all different reasons to believe.
Kind of the one thing you need to be careful of here is that you need to make sure that I'm sure that there are many reasons why your company is great, but once you pick a point of difference, the reasons to believe need to support it.
So remember, Mighty Vine. Okay, Mighty Bine is the local greenhouse tomato grow that grows delicious toatoes year round.
There are 3 reasons to believe support this. So delicious, the varietals they grow were selected for maximum flavor, not shipability.
Local greenhouse. They have a state of the art greenhouse in Rochelle, Illinois that ensures that tomatoes are in store within 2 days of being fully ripened on the vine.
And year round, well-known Chicago area chefs like Rick Palace use our tomatoes year round.
So you can see that although Mighty Mine had a lot of great things about the product. The point of difference was supported by reasons to believe.
That specifically. Specifically, we're focused on why we said Mighty Mine was great.
That can be hard. So for Allen brothers, they say that they deliver to your home the very best eggs you can get anywhere.
The reasons to believe are one, they're the leading purveyor of USDA prime in the US.
They do. Bye, more USDA graded prime than anybody in the country and everybody in the meat industry would agree.
2, they're me to serve in the very best steak houses in America like Mortons and 3, every single piece of meat is hand selected handcuffed and aged by their master butchers.
So that's why Allan Brothers is able to say that they are delivering to people's homes the very best steak they can get anywhere.
So this is how the Allen Brothers positioning statement looks when it's filled in. And I like to make them pretty because people are paying me a lot of money.
So I do that too. So that's all I have for you guys today. It looks like we have 7 min left.
If people would like to ask questions. I would be delighted to answer them.
I know it's a lot, right? I'm sure and expect like you're getting ready for your pitches next week and it's a lot of stuff, but hopefully this gives you, a different way of looking at how you're talking to your customers, even how you're thinking about your business.
That can maybe help you. Make your messaging better. And more.
We're able to connect with the people you're trying to connect with. And not get the heistman.
So any other questions? You guys have been such a great audience. I appreciate how likely you've been.
Yes, Andrea.
Yes, so I know you touched on this, Susan, but if you can remind me, once we get this statement, right?
How do we use it both to target to message to consumers and to peach like We don't use it as, right?
We use parts and pieces for.
You don't use it as is and partly it's because it's just awkward right like like I can kind of look at anybody's website or anybody's messaging and kind of do forensics on it and figure it out.
This is not secret. Like literally this is this is kind of the the message you're putting out to the world so it is not secret.
But the way that the positioning statement is written is awkward. It's basically just, you know, stringing the right things together.
So no, you don't just want to dump that on somebody, but I will tell you actually also.
Point of difference should be above the fold on your website. Right? That's where that puppy lives.
Your point of difference should be above the fold on your website. The reasons to believe are probably tabs.
Okay, that's the way that would work. A hundred for you guys by doing kind of your business kind of to consumers, your positioning statement, it's going to help you talk better when you do, when you think about how you're gonna pitch to the investors because you're gonna be able to talk about why you're great.
Who it is that cares your target. And the reasons to believe what you're saying.
Thank you.
You're welcome. Other questions?
Yes, Kevin.
Hello, Suzanne. Yeah, thank you so much for that very insightful session. I think, my question is, If we are doing content marketing.
How do we let's say you're making a post and how do we do we ensure that every post you are making kind of incorporates this or do you just, you know, how do you make it not?
Wanna turn us that, you know, because definitely it's not cell cell cell every time, especially when.
No, and I think I think Kelvin, that's the most important thing. You know, there's there's a lot of art that goes into content and social And it's not about selling, right?
It's about kind of,
Okay.
Being being interesting in an analogous way. And sprinkling in the selling, but you need to kind of, it's an opportunity to prove your credibility and your expertise through other ways.
You know, one of my favorite examples is There's a business here in Chicago. Oh my god, artist frame service.
You know, I'm 1 of the things they have on their website is how to hang a picture.
Right, which is something people Google a lot. So they're not telling you to buy their frames, but they're happy to tell you, I mean they're doing that on their website, but in terms of social media, you know, a big content piece for them is.
How to think about hanging your pictures.
Okay, makes a lot of sense makes a lot of sense. Yeah
Cause all of this is really about
You want to.
Hello.
Engage people and have them be interested enough to want to learn more, talk to you more, go to your website, right?
Like I think about like every piece of marketing. Content or tactic has a job to do. So like the job of your website is really to get someone to call you, sign up for your newsletter or email you.
Yeah.
That's it. Or if you're an ecommerce site to buy your product. And that's it.
Okay, I don't care if they don't use you as a resource. I don't care if they don't come back weekly to kind of like do whatever.
Okay, I don't care if they never read a blog post because I really don't care.
I want them to call you. Email you, buy off your site. Give you their email address.
Yeah.
That's it. So being being really realistic about what is the job the marketing tactic has to do and then what's the appropriate piece of this messaging to kind of use to kind of bring them in to engage them so you can have a deeper conversation.
You know, and that's that's all about how the funnel works too when you're kind of pulling people in it's like what's the top of the funnel message and then once they're engaged more, you can kind of go deeper into what you offer.
But you don't do that right away because it's too much. And their brains don't wanna eat like, right?
Like their brains don't wanna hear it.
Exactly. So essentially it's about creating value and then using that value to draw them top of the funnel, you know, like, we, we, provide, you know, online group therapy.
Right, exactly.
We have a YouTube channel where we put out meditation and all this stuff for free so it's putting it out and then using it as a funnel for those who now want more they can, you know, they're getting the value they can eventually buy down the line.
Thank you so much.
Yep, exactly. My pleasure. Thank you guys so much. It has really been great to like really if any of you have any questions that you're too shy to ask, although you're in tech stars, I doubt you're shy.
But if you if you want to reach out to me about any questions you have. Chloe, I have my information and it's really been such a pleasure to talk to you.
I hope this is useful.
Thank you, Susan. It was great to see you. Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Bye.
Great to see you too. Bye everybody. Of course. Good luck, next week.
Thank you so much.
Thank you very much.
Bye bye.
Thank you. So much. Bye.
Great